# PaaSTech - Technical Architecture Document

## Contextualisation

### Description and intent

***TODO: [UNIFIED WORK] write description of the software and its intent (what market needs it answers to)***

### Technologies

***TODO: [UNIFIED WORK] define the different technologies below, why they were chosen, and use arguments AND PROOFS to show research***

#### Web application

The website is made using [React](https://react.dev/), we decided to use this framework because it is the most popular, widely used in industry and greatly documented. Furthermore, the whole team was already familiar with React thanks to several past projects.

As for the component library, we chose [Chakra UI](https://chakra-ui.com/). Even though we didn't have any experience with it, we decided to try it out since it was visualy appealing and popular. It is also very well documented and supported by the community.

[Typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) was a must have for us to ensure code quality and to avoid bugs. Using a strongly typed codebase is also a good way to ensure the maintainability of our project in the future.

The website sends requests to the client API with the use of Axios HTTP Client. Axios has several advantages as compared to the more well-known Fetch API. It [supports more browsers](https://github.com/axios/axios#browser-support), has built-in protection against CSRF (Cross-Site Request Forgery) and converts data to json format automatically. 
All of this makes Axios one of the most straightforward solutions to use.
To simplify the development of the connection with API, our team have used the [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech/) tool which generated typescript objects and functions for every controller and endpoint in our API. The autogenerated code uses Axios to send requests and is based on the OpenAPI specification of the API which was conveniently provided to us by NestJS once we added the `SwaggerModule`.

**Website structure**
The web application offers to users several public and protected routes, which give access to the main PaaSTech features. 

An anonymous user can view:

- The home page
- The login / sign up pages
- The email verification and password reset page

On top of that, an authenticated user has access to their personal dashboard which includes:

- their profile,
- their projects
- project info
- actions and logs
- environment variables
- project settings (which just allow to delete a project for now).

#### CLI (Command-Line Interface)

***TODO: [CLIENT] fill for the cli***

#### Client API

***TODO: [CLIENT] fill for the external API***

#### Git controller

***TODO: [GIT] fill for the git controller and architecture***

#### Client applications deployment

***TODO: [INFRA] fill for the architecture used to deploy clients' applications***

#### Database

***TODO: [CLIENT] fill for the unified database schema***

#### CI/CD

***TODO: [UNIFIED WORK] describe use of Github Actions as means of CI/CD***


## Architecture

### Definitions

- the Service refers to PaaSTech as a whole;
- a Client is a user account created by an end user against the Service;
- a Project is a materialisation of a Git repository, created by a Client using either the web frontend or the CLI. A Project can be deployed by the Client by pushing its code to the Service.
- an Application (also referred to as Deployment) is an atomic unit of code, and is the result of a Project deployment. This unit is internally managed and can only be configured to a certain extent by the Client.


### Component interaction

***TODO: [UNIFIED WORK] mermaid diagram of how components interact with eachother***

### Database architecture

***TODO: [CLIENT] describe the database architecture, as referenced in the MCD in the README***

### Detailed specification

#### Key constraints

***TODO: [CLIENT, INFRA] the key constraints that should never be broken by the application (or at least the external parts, like the API and container exposition) in order to maintain security, isolation and client data safety***

#### Client sign-up and login process

***TODO: [CLIENT] mermaid diagram and description of the login process flow, for both the CLI and the web frontend***

#### Projects storage

***TODO: [GIT] how are the projects stored and how is authentication handled upon push***

#### Client Applications

***TODO: [INFRA] how are the Client applications provisioned, how they are exposed and how the underlying infrastructure is managed***

## Post-mortem

### Organisational overview

***TODO: [UNIFIED WORK] from an organisation standpoint, how was the entire team organised, how did the squads interact***